The title is: The Teeth Song (Learn in 3 minutes!) | SCIENCE SONGS and the text is:  This video is sponsored by Sensodyne. And now, AsapSCIENCE presents the Teeth Song! Teeth, their meat, calcified tools to eat. Crown and root, in sections they are grouped. It's scissors, chop and then cut for you. Canine, stab and rip too. Bicuspids crush the food. Molars, grind, upper, maxilla, the lower. Mandible, a full-set calcite that eats you. Enamel, the hardest substance in your body, making up the crown. Dancing underneath, supporting structure further down. Cementum now, connecting ligaments and covering the root for more stability. The pulp is here, blood vessels cheer. Periodontium, tissue, gingiva, argum act like glue all combined for you to masticate. As omnivores, our diet is mixed. Meat organisms get a fix, it's what makes us heterotrophs. So, our teeth are a multi-purpose. Teeth, their meat, calcified tools to eat. Crown and root, in sections they are grouped. It's scissors, chop and then cut for you. Canine, stab and rip too. Bicuspids crush the food. Molars, grind, upper, maxilla, the lower. Mandible, a full-set calcite that eats you. Brushing teeth prevents cavities, breaking plaque formation. Fluoride helps to build enamel through a process of remineralization. Mammals are diphyodent, two sets of teeth are designed. From primary or baby, to permanent for your life. So brush your teeth, and floss regularly, in between. And they'll stay healthy now if you just keep a regular routine. To empty up your plate, but unchecked, things can become a mess. If you do not clean your teeth, bacteria will increase, creating plaque and acid. Tooth decay can be rapid, demineralization. And some painful sensations, exposing nerves and dentin, while toxins start infecting, inflaming outcome disease. And to sensitivity, without good oral hygiene, bacteria reign supreme. This is why we brush our teeth twice a day. To keep gingivitis and diseases all at bay. For our teeth, they need calcified tools to eat. Crown and root, let's name those groups first. We have central and lateral incisors. The canines are the longest to consider. Transitional first and second ring molars. Also called plaque haspids by the scholars. The first and second molars at the back right. And if you're clever, you will find a third kind. Wisdom teeth! Thank you all for listening and watching. We want to send a huge thank you to Sensodyne for sponsoring this video, and allowing us to continue making fun educational science videos. They recently released a new product called Sensodyne Sensitivity in Gum, which is a dual-action toothpaste that relieves sensitivity, but also improves gum health. I, along with 40% of people, experience sensitive teeth most of the time when I'm eating something very cold or very hot. As shown in this song, when tooth enamel wears away over time, especially over long periods of time, it can expose a soft inner part of your tooth called dentin. This dentin has thousands of microscopic channels that are running towards the nerves in the tooth's center. Certain triggers can actually travel through these channels and stimulate the nerve, causing that short, sharp pain that we know as tooth sensitivity. Sensodyne Sensitivity in Gum not only builds a protective barrier over the sensitive areas, but it also targets and removes plaque, which helps swollen or bleeding gums. Oftentimes, gum problems are associated with sensitivity, so for people who experience both, it's a great product. Sponsors like this allow us to keep making content and sharing science and education with people around the world, so we are very thankful to Sensodyne. Go check them out. I mean, I personally use Sensodyne every single day. We'll leave links in the description below. Thanks again for watching and singing along. Send us videos of you singing it, learning about your teeth. And we'll see you next time for another science video. Teeth!